The stock market is considered to be the greatest opportunity machine. Being, by far, the system that has created the most wealth, the stock market gives everyone the opportunity to invest their savings and let them grow passively. Access to the stock market is the biggest opportunity one could be given. If one carefully follows a simple process when picking stocks, success in the market is pretty much guaranteed.
The process starts by understanding that the market is growing infinitely. Historically, the US stock market has given average annual returns of 9.8%. This means that if you invested money in a company with average performance, your investment would double in only seven years. Consequently, if you were able to pick a company that outperforms the average company in the stock market, which is not very hard, you could have way better returns than those, which are already good. 
Once you understand that the market is always growing at a fast rate, you may proceed to look for companies to invest in. Firstly, you want to make sure that the company you are investing in is involved in a promising market, this means that the industry the company is focused on has to be an industry which is growing and will continue growing. This is very important, because you may be able to find a very promising company priced at a decent price, but if this company is focused on an industry that will not be relevant in the future, investing your money in it is not a good idea. Therefore, before looking at individual companies, you should look at individual industries and determine which industry will be relevant in the future. If you feel like you are not qualified to do this, you may pick the technology industry. It is a market that has been growing rapidly and will continue growing in the future.
Once you have found a promising industry, you will try to find good companies focused on the industry that you can invest your money in. When it comes to finding those companies, you firstly want to analyze the biggest competitors in that industry. A quick google search will let you know which companies are making the biggest profits in the sector. With this information, you should create a list composed of at least ten companies. Right after you are done with this step, you will proceed to analyze the companies one by one, starting with those which have the highest market capitalization (which is the value of the companies stocks multiplied by the number of shares outstanding) .
The first thing you will look at when analyzing a company is how much profits they are making annually and calculate the ratio between their profits and their market capitalization, which is the price of their stock multiplied by the total amount of stocks. The lower this ratio is, the cheapest the stock is priced. If the ratio between the market capitalization and the profits the company is making is greater than fifty, you may want to ignore this company, as investing in highly priced companies is risky. If you are an expert though, you may ignore this advice.    
After you finish the previous step you will have a smaller list of companies whose stock is priced at a decent value. The next step in the process is to analyze how the price has evolved over time. You will analyze each company one by one and pick those whose stock’s price has been increasing at a decent rate, is in an uptrend, and has low volatility. It is important to remember that you must never invest in companies whose stock price has been decreasing. Even if the stock’s price is low, you are almost always better off buying a stock whose price is at an all-time high. As I previously stated, what we are looking for are stocks that are priced at a decent value, not stocks whose price has been decreasing, because the chances are, it will continue decreasing. 

The next thing you are going to want to do is look at the internal metrics of the company. It is important to note that if this information is not available to you, it may be because they are hiding something, so you should not invest your money in them. You will proceed to analyze each relevant metric individually and make sure that most of them are in an uptrend. You want to find companies whose number of customers, profits, revenue, cash flow and followers on social media, have been increasing.
Continuing with the process, you will proceed to analyze the people behind the company. Companies are nothing else than individuals united to achieve something. The people that manage the company will determine if the company has good results in the future. You want to analyze the people in charge of high tear management positions. You want to make sure they are experienced, talented, smart, passionate, trustworthy and good leaders. Thereafter you will proceed to determine if the employees of the company are happy to be working in the company, as it has been tested and proven that those companies that treat well their employees are usually the ones that get richer. Nothing can stop a team of experienced and talented people that are happily united to achieve something. 
Once you are done with these steps, you are ready to buy the stocks which have passed most of these filters. But before you proceed to do that, you will have to make a commitment: you will not sell the stocks you invested in. The market is often weird and good stocks can lose value for long periods of time for irrational reasons. You will never sell one of the stocks you decided to invest in just because its value is decreasing. You will only sell a stock if the principles that made you invest in it have changed. Is the industry that the company is focused on no longer promising? Has the company’s market capitalization to profits ratio increased? Are the relevant internal metrics of your company on a downtrend? Are the good employees leaving? Has the company started to have a bad work ethic? If the answer to any of these questions is yes, you may then consider selling the stock. But as long as the principles that initially made you invest in the company are valid, you should not sell the stock. Even if you have owned it for decades. Right after you have made this commitment, the process is finished and you are ready to buy the best stocks you have found.
 To sum up everything that has been stated so far, finding the best stocks to invest in in the stock market requires carefully following a simple process composed of steps that require you to do some research and simple mathematics. It may be hard for some but If you are committed to respect every single step in the process, success in the market is pretty much guaranteed. 
