The text discusses an interesting fact about the evolution of the average performance people have on IQ test. The text describes that James Flynn discovered that the average IQ of the American citizen was increasing steadily at a rate of  three points per decade. The text provides arguments in favor of such claim. However, this increase in IQ scores may be difficult to explain. 
A reason the text gives for such an increase is economic prosperity: in the surge of prosperity during the middle part of the last century, people in the West became better fed, better educated, and more familiar with things like I.Q. tests. People who are better fed and better educated will also have more powerful and developed brains, and thus, will score higher at IQ tests. Furthermore, the text explains that this increase in IQ scores has not only been seen in America but also all over the developed world, and the trend was evenly distributed among the population, the wealthiest and well educated kids were not the only group that the increase was seen in, the lower socio-economic classes also saw this change in IQ test scores.
Furthermore the text proposes one thing, that had been believed to make people dumber, as the explanation of this increase and such thing being popular culture. Particularly, the introduction of television. In the 20th century, more and more people began consuming television programs, which were believed to make people more supid as they were thought to be a waste of time . Nonetheless, television programs would actually enhance cognitive skills. This programs required a long span of attention, the acquisition of new vocabulary and the use of logical skills in order to be understood. Therefore, these capabilities would be enhanced when watched television, and their development would help people score higher in IQ tests. 
Addiotionally, television was not the only thing that was misbelieved to make people dumber. I think this is exactly the case for video games. They are commonly believed to make people stupid. However, a development of essential cognitive capabilities is caused by their use. Videogames required a long span of attention, the acquisition of new vocabulary, the use of short term and long term memory and the use of logical skills in order to be played.
Under these requirements, video games would help people further develop their brain, and thus, score higher on IQ tests.
To sum up everything that has been stated so far, the increase of the average score of Americans in IQ tests is an interesting discovery that may be explained not only by economic prosperity, but also by the introduction of popular culture, which involved the use of television and video games. Devices, which on the contrary to what they were believed to do, would make people smarter. 
