The topic that we will discuss in this Research Project is Nonverbal Communication in Intercultural Communication. The reason why we are interested in this specific topic is that our group is conformed of three different nationalities, American, Argentinian, and Guatemalan, which provides us with personal knowledge and experiences on the subject. We are looking forward to putting into practice all that we have been studying in this class and gaining a new perspective on those chapters by doing our own research. We know that culture can interfere with effective communication, but we want to find out what exactly happens when two individuals from different cultures communicate with nonverbals.
Literature Review:
Nonverbal communication can be defined as “messages expressed by nonlinguistic means”. This does not include sign language or written messages, however, it does include vocal messages given without language, such as laughter (Adler et al., 2017; p. 212, 213). Nonverbal communication varies based on culture and country and can even vary within different locations that are in the same country. These differences tend to fall within eight categories: eye contact, touch, gestures, physical distance, facial expressions, appearance, posture, and paralanguage (Schueman, 2022).
According to Charles Tidewell in his article Non-Verbal Communication Modes, in Western cultures, eye contact “indicates the degree of attention or interest, influences attitude change or persuasion, regulates interaction, communicates emotion, defines power and status, and has a central role in managing impressions of others”. Eye contact is encouraged and seen as positive. However, because there are various racial and ethnic groups in the United States, there are some discrepancies that can cause confusion and misunderstandings between these groups. For example, African-Americans utilize more eye contact when speaking than when listening and the reverse is true for Anglo-Americans. In Arabic cultures, prolonged eye contact is also seen as a positive. They believe that it shows interest and the trustworthiness of a person. In many Eastern cultures, eye contact is avoided to show respect. In some cultures, there are also gender rules around eye contact, where women are discouraged from making eye contact with men as it can convey authority or sexual interest (Shuemann, 2022).
Touch is a universal mode of communication, however, the “why”, “where”, and “when” of touch are culturally determined. What is considered appropriate in one culture may be considered completely inappropriate in another. The basic message of touch is to “affect or control – protect, support, disapprove” (Tidewell). It is customary in British, Australian, German, and US-American cultures to shake hands, even with strangers. In Latin cultures, frequent touches are, without regard to gender, acceptable; however Islamic cultures disapprove of any form of touching between genders.
Gestures vary in their meaning from culture to culture. There is an incredible possibility and variety of gestures, and a gesture that is acceptable in one culture may be offensive in another (Tidewell). The amount of gesturing used also varies; some cultures may be more animated while others are restrained. This can be a cause of conflict and misunderstanding when someone from a more animated culture interacts with someone from a more restrained culture. “Restrained cultures often feel animated cultures lack manners and overall restraint. Animated cultures often feel restrained cultures lack emotion or interest” (Tidwell). Here are some examples of conflicting cultural gestures: the North American “OK” sign is an obscene gesture in many European countries and the Texas Longhorns hand sign is a well-known gesture in Italy that indicates the other person is a cuckold (which means their wife is cheating on them). 
In 1963, Edward T. Hall, an American anthropologist, and cross-cultural researcher developed the concept of proxemics. He defined proxemics as the study of “the interrelated observations and theories of man’s use of space as a specialized elaboration of culture”, or in simpler terms, the study of the human use of space and its effects on communication. Though cultures vary in their preferred interpersonal distance, no matter where in the world you are, the golden rule is to “keep your distance”. Most people feel uncomfortable when someone is too close to their personal space, which is about two feet, with the exception of invited physical intimacy.
All over the world, emotions such as happiness and fear are expressed in similar ways. Between 1972 and 1988, Paul Ekman, an American psychologist who studied emotions and their relation to facial expressions, concluded that there are seven universal expressions – anger, disgust, fear, sadness, happiness, surprise, and contempt. However, the frequency and context of using these facial expressions vary from culture to culture (Ma, 2016). Some cultures tend to be more expressive in their body languages, such as Italians and Mediterrians, whereas other cultures are more restrained, such as northern Europeans and Asians. Another example of cultural differences in expressing emotion is: in Japan, it is inappropriate to cry in public, whereas in Middle Eastern or Latin American cultures it is normal to express one’s emotions openly and visibly (“Nonverbal Communication and Culture”, 2021).
Physical appearance is important in all cultures and everyone makes judgments based on looks and dress. Cultures have different standards for what is considered attractive, appropriate, or modest. However, good hygiene and clean, professional attire is appreciated all over the world!
Posture and body movement can communicate various messages, and the standards for what is appropriate and respectful can differ from culture to culture. A person’s posture can tell messages such as social status, religious belief, desire, intention, etc. A common American posture is shrugging of the shoulders. This can be interpreted as innocence and that the person has nothing to conceal. However, in China, this is understood as indifference and ignorance, which makes it rude and unacceptable among the Chinese (Ma, 2016). A few other examples are: bowing, which is respectful and shows rank in Japan; slouching, which is rude in most European countries; putting your hands in your pockets, which is disrespectful in Turkey; sitting with your legs crossed, which is also offensive in Turkey as well as Ghana; showing the soles of your feet, which is offensive in Thailand and Saudi Arabia (Tidewell).
