In march 2008 a user by the name of Satoshi Nakamoto made his first post in ‘bitcointalk’ forums. He described he was working on a new financial system that would revolutionize the world. One system designed under the principle of  bringing control back to the people. His system was named Bitcoin. A descentalized, unhackable, deflationary  and incredibly fast financial system.

Bitcoin is a digital currency that was designed to replace ordinary fiat currencies. It operates in a digital decentralized network known as blockchain. A blockchain is a chain of computers that together function as a system that constantly updates a chain of blocks that contain information. The information contained in such chain of computers can only be altered if fifty percent or more of the computers agree on its alteration. Satoshi Nakamoto designed the blockchain so that anyone with a computer and an internet connection could program its computer to help maintain the Bitcoin network functioning and receive Bitcoin as a reward, these computers that help maintain the Bitcoin network are called miners. In order to turn off or sabotage the system, one would need to destroy or take control of fifty percent or more of the computers that help maintain the network. Such task would be impossible and hence the system is unhackable. Furthermore, as anyone can provide maintenance to the network, the network is owned by no one. Meaning that no singular entity can decide what is going to happen to the network and thus, people have full control of the system.

Bitcoin introduced the concept of decentralized financial systems, in which the administration of the system is not centralized on a central bank that has full control of the monetary emissions. Instead, the administrative decisions are being taken in a democratic process. Every single miner has the right to vote to decide what is going to happen to the network. This system eliminates the need for a singular administrative entity, which is a revolutionizing idea no one could have thought of before.

Furthermore, decentralized financial systems are extremely useful in the current situation the US is facing. The federal reserve has been printing money non-stop, the US-dollar inflation in nearly at all time records at 7.5% annually. The dollar no longer serves as a reserve of value as it loses a significant portion of its value every year. The dollar used to be seen as the best currency in terms of inflation, but that is not the case any more, and under these circumstances another reserve of value is needed.

The Bitcoin network was designed so that only 21 million Bitcoin coins would exist and no Bitcoins could be created, nor destroyed. This limited supply makes the financial system deflationary, imitating how gold has been used as a reserve of value. Moreover, Bitcoins cannot leave the blockchain, they can only be assigned a different owner and they can be exchanged for non-digital currencies. As of today, each Bitcoin can be traded for 43 thousand US dollars.

Users use the currency as a form of payment. As the currency only exists digitally, its transactions are extremely fast. What would normally take days if it was done by regular banks can now be done in minutes in the Bitcoin network. As the currency doesn’t exist physically, transacting Bitcoin only represents updating a number. Thus, billions of dollars can be transacted in just minutes, any day of the week, and with almost no commission, making regular banks obsolete. For instance, Bitcoin holds the world record for the most efficient massive monetary transaction as in 2017, three billion dollars worth of Bitcoin were transacted in just 15 minutes, with a commission of one dollar. An ordinary bank would have charged thirty million dollars or more for such transaction, and it would have taken weeks to accomplish.

These incredible traits have attracted millions of investors to the Bitcoin network. It is by far, the asset that has grown the most over the past 10 years with returns of five million percentage points. It has out-grown banks that have existed for centuries and is among the top ten assets with the largest market capitalization, possessing one of seven hundred and eighty billion dollars as of today.

The existence of this system is simply incredible, and seems to be perfect, but there is one disadvantage. As the value that Bitcoin can be traded for varies due to supply and demand,  one Bitcoin can be worth 43 thousand dollars today and 40 thousand dollars tomorrow. This implied volatility makes the system difficult to use for the average person. In order to be able to use the network successfully, a deep understanding of how the network works is required.

The existence of Bitcoin seems to be a miracle. The network is able to store and transact a currency very rapidly and securely. It has a limited supply that makes it deflationary and its decentralized maintenance method makes it uncontrollable by a singular entity, giving full control of the network to the people.  The technology is very promising and if its disadvantage is solved,  it may replace ordinary currencies in the future. 
