On the other hand, people from Asia had less open body language than the rest of the cultures. The body language, especially from Japanese individuals, implied more respect to others and shyness at the same time. Nevertheless, they were not as spread as Latin American people, and not because of the low rate of Asian students compared to the rest of the students. They all were concentrated in one single group and every single one of them was from Asia. People from China, Taiwan, and Japan are the majority of the Asians at Snow College and they share similar attitudes and cultural customs we could not find in other cultures. In addition, they were not as touchy as Latin American people are and from our perspective, we found their way of expression too respectful and slightly cold. 
Argentinians: 
From the people of Latin America, the ones who caught our attention were the people of Argentina. They had many features that helped me to distinguish their nationality from the rest of Latin American individuals. At first glance, they had European characteristics mixed with Hispanic looks. However, those were not the only differences they physically showed. 
Argentinians were way more extroverted than the rest of the people. They had body language that proved they tried to be more polite with others but not keeps too much distance between them. In the bargain, they were really expressive with their body language. Most of them were always with their arms open and really participative in the conversation, getting really close to others to communicate their ideas. Their voice tone was really clear, even though the way they spoke and their idioms are hard to understand in other Hispanic countries. 
Even though most of them are extroverted, they do not mix up a lot. They do have interactions with every Latin American person, but they stay a great part of their time in groups filled with only people from their own country. They are not spread into different groups. This is similar to what happens to Japanese people, but the difference is that there are other people that speak Spanish with whom they do not spend time.
Results:
As a result of the research, we found out that in South American Culture people tend to use physical touch considerably more than in American Culture. This doesn’t mean they love their friends less, or that they are colder than South Americans. Also, this doesn’t mean that every American or Latin American person behaves the same way. The results we found match our hypothesis: different cultures use nonverbals differently, but when keeping an open mind and avoiding assumptions and early judgment, two individuals from different cultures can still understand each other and forge relationships. 
International Students Meeting:
Culture influences the way we behave and the way we act. We performed research on how people from different cultures communicate nonverbally. We performed a second observational study. We went to a building in which a meeting for international students in the United States was being held and took notes on how people interacted. We paid special attention to nonverbal communication and analyzed what we saw. 
Results:
The first thing we noticed is the fact that the communication was rich in nonverbal cues. People used gesticulated a lot and were more prone to use physical touch during communication. Many of the people in the meeting were from Latin American countries, in which there is a vast tradition of greeting people by kissing them on the cheek, even between people who don’t know each other, we saw a lot of this happen during the event.  Physical contact was used a lot during the communication process. Touching the other person was seen as appropriate and wasn’t perceived as weird or awkward as it would in other cultures. People seemed open to talking and interacting with others. Furthermore, posture was notorious too. They seemed to stand confidently and spread their body. 
However, there was a group of international students that was contrary to the afore-described. The Asians, who have a culture drastically different from that of the Latin Americans, were very reserved and their communication wasn't as rich in nonverbal cues, they barely gesticulated and physical touch was completely absent. When they greeted each other they did not use physical touch.
Additionally, there was a group that outlied for its extroversion. The Argentinians were the loudest and the most communicative. They gesticulated a lot and used some gestures that are particular to them. For example, when asking questions they tended to use slang with their hands that implied they wanted to know something. 
Discussion:
As expected, culture made a big difference when it came down to how people interacted. Latin American natives had a communication process that was rich in nonverbal messages, they were touchy and gesticulated a lot while speaking. Latin Americans were very different from Asians when it came down to communication and this demonstrated how much culture influences the way we communicate. After what we have learned from our own research and literature review, to be successful in communicating with individuals from other cultures we need to have tolerance for ambiguity and avoid making assumptions. In other words, we need to have an open mind—our findings from our original research support what scholars say about Intercultural Communication. 
